Expenses
The primary expenses will be spent on R&D , as this is a physical product it will require a significant amount of time to ensure that the product is reliable under prolonged surgery conditions before it can be released to clinets.
The operational expenses will be very small as initial office rent costs in Dublin are quite small compared to other capitals. Thus the only ig expenses will be commpunication systems overheads and employee wages and benefits.
Marketing expenses will be smaller than that of other firms, due to the nature of the business plan, the company does not need to build a brand  awareness with every individual but rather every hospital. Advertising and marketing the producty will still cost a substantial amount but not as much as that of B to C businesses.



Risks
The risk of the product underperforming in any way while being used would lead to catastrophic results as it may cause the surgeon to act in a way which may cause harm to the patient.
The product needs to be thoroughly tested to ensurte that it is safe from usability related breakdowns and malicious attacks.

MAlicious attacks, either caused by errors in our own system or caused by a third party are one of the most vulnerable exposures of many businesses. Extra steps need to be taken to ensure that the product is reliable and secure, thus that its instructions cannot be doubted or questioned by the surgeons who use it .

Theft and patent infringment by a malicious third party is also another risk with the device. The divice security is entrusted with the individual hospitals security personel and procedures. Any malicious third party able to by-pass these systems would then find it easy to copy the device and learn its trade secrets.

The logistics of producing the device are quite diverse and complex. From production of initial parts to assembly, programming to diztributing to clients. The chain is quite long and if any of these links become slow, such as shipping routes taking longer due to piracy action it will significantly hamper our efforts in distributing the devices to clients.




Benefits
Due to the complexity and cost of the device it can only ever be a B to B model as the average person would generaly not have a need for a highly specialised lathroscopic device.

B to B model is more reliable as the attrition of customers is not as high. The feedback from customers is also more personal. The customer relationship is also better as the clients interact with us on a monthly basis.

Our product is secure from imitation or patent theft or infringement as the company will know the location of all the devices in use around the world. This careful and extended vice does not end up in the w=knowledge of our customers will ensure that our device does not end up in the wrong hands.


Competition
Current competition in this market is very small as it is a yet untapped market. Google Glass was launched to fill this gap, but due to poor marketing, poor user feedback and over pricing the device was completely abandoned by google in the end.
Emerging competition would be quite sparse as the device itself is quite advanced and requires a substantial amount of funds and expertise to develop, produce and distribute.




Summary 

MEDVAC is a specialised lathroscopy product aimed at making surgeries safer, faster and more transparent.
